The new Thread page will replace the ChatPane.svelte using a view-based approach. 
The CHatPane will remain as an example but will be replaced by the new thread page and views. 
The first view to build is the ThreadChatView.
Other views to be built include include a Prompt view, Graphic view, execution view and file view. 

The thread page should consist of these elements stacked vertically from top to bottom, all full width:

ThreadPageHeader - left-aligned editable title of the thread. there will be commands that appear on hover on the right side of the header including "Show tokens" and "Show status"
ThreadViewSelector - small subtle icons allowing the user to select a view, one of chat, prompt, execution or graphic. the user can also press Ctrl-left arrow to go to the "next" view.
ThreadView - the current view selected. Initially ChatView should be developed. 
ThreadPageFooter - defined but no content identified - should not take any space or show any test

The ThreadChatView will show any saved messages and allow the user to enter a prompt and see the response. A message is a request plus response. A prompt is user-entered text that becomes a request when submitted to an llm. 
Initially, this view should accept a new thread route where an (app slug, model slug) and a text prompt is provided, and this page will create a request and submit it to the selcted model using the IPC. This should follow how the current chatpane siubmits a prompt for a new thread. 

This View contains the following:

1.ChatViewHeader - initally empty , defined for growth
2. ChatMessages - a list of the following where a ChatMessage contains

  2.1 ChatRequest = consists of the following controls
      2.1.1 ChatPromptText - the text the user entered
      2.1.2 CHatRequestAttachments - files attached by the user shown as badges - user can click to see the file
      2.1.3 CHatRequestInformation - a label control that shows date-time prompt was sent. if user clicks it, it shows model and date-time. if they click again it shows user+model+date-time, if they click again, it goes back to show date-time
   2.2 ChatRequestCommands - a 1 or 1.5 line (configurable by css) space that will show command icons when hovered by the user, which include copy, try variation, try another model. this control creates a vertical gap after the request. the command icons are only visible when the user hovers over this gap. 

   2.3 ChatResponse = consists of the following:
      2.3.1 ChatResponseText - the text the user entered
      2.3.2 ChatRequestToolDetails - tool and mcp interactions during the request
      2.3.3 CHatRequestFiles - files generated by the llm shown as badges - user can click to see the file

   2.4 ChatResponseCommands - a 1 or 1.5 line (configurable by css) space that will show command icons when hovered by the user, where the commands include copy. this control creates a vertical gap after the request. the command icons are only visible when the user hovers over this gap. 

   2.5 ChatReccomendations - used to show recomendations from  an AI prompt to analyze the users chat and propose actions - should be blank unless there is a reomcendation

3. ChatViewFooter - empty for now. place holder for future features. should not take any vertical layout space. 

The CHatRequest and CHatResponse controls must adhere to the thread layout of either left-right, right-left or left-left indendted. For example in left-right layout, the chatrequest is on the left side and left-aligned  verticaly and the chatResponse is right-aligned on the right side vertically. 
